Hey everyone, my name is Cecil and I'm here with my colleague Jay and we're from the Posit
support team and today we're going to be talking a little bit about SSL certificates and SSL
certificate chains.
So just for some context, this is a host that we've created with Posit teams and there is
Workbench, Kinect, and Package Manager installed.
Workbench has a CA-signed certificate, signed by Let's Encrypt, and Kinect has a self-signed
certificate.
So there's a nifty command that uses the OpenSSL utility which will allow you to see if your
certificate chain is complete or not.
So I've got that pre-prepared and I'll paste it in but effectively we use the OpenSSL command
and we paste in the URL of the host that we want to test.
In this case, we'll test Kinect which has the incomplete certificate.
So if we hit enter there, you'll notice that the verify return code is the most important
part.
This should return a zero but as you see here, it returns an 18 because this is a self-signed
certificate.
So if we scroll up a little bit, we can see that there's only one certificate in this
chain whereas with Workbench, if we were to run the same command for Workbench, you'll
notice that the verify return code is zero and it returns okay but there are more parts
to the SSL certificate chain.
So this is a Let's Encrypt certificate that typically you don't share your specific certificate
like this.
This host will be deleted after this video but typically what it looks like is you'll
see either two or three different parts of the certificate to the chain and in most cases
they should be concatenated into the single file.
As long as you're running this command and seeing the return okay, in most cases you
know your certificate file is set up well.